Title of the project: CAR RENTAL SYSTEM

Introduction: The Online Car Rental System is easy to use, full-featured and flexible car booking, car listing and car rental web portal. It allows Administrators of this car rental website you can add new or change locations, vehicle pictures, rate card. The eCarRental System provides complete functionality of listing and booking car.

About the Problem :Car Rental System service will help users to book a car for some fee specified. Till now there was no clear web based UI to help the users to rent the vehicle. They had to manually rent the vehicle through their offices. It was a difficult task to manage rental vehicles. Keeping track of all the rental cars was a problem.

Modules:
Car Rental: This module shall have the data details regarding different type of cars and their booking dates, time etc.
User: This module shall have the details of the user like name address, phone number etc.

The primary reason to chose this particular topic:

The main objective of the project (a clear picture of the project):This Car Rental System project will enable the user to rent a vehicle. The user shall login to the system and check for availability of cars. The user specifies a type of car and the journey date and time. The Car Rental System shall check for the availability of the car and rent the car to the customer. The user can make payment online. The tool is designed using VB.net. All the data regarding the rental cars are stored in MySQL database. The user has to enter his name, address, phone details and check for the cars available for rent. The UI is very simple and the connectivity to back end is robust. The main advantage is that the user shall be able to choose a car depending on his budget. To produce a web-based system that allow customer to reister and reserve car online
and for the company to effectively manage their car rental business.
To ease customer's task whenever they need to rent a car.Considerable efforts have made the software easy to operate even for the people
not related to the field of computers but it is acknowledged that a layman may find it a
bit problematic at the first instance. The user is provided help at each step for his 
convenience in working with the software.

Scope of the Project:This project traverses a lot of areas ranging from business concept to computing field,
and required to perform several researches to be able to achieve the project objectives.

Car rental industry: This includes study on how the car rental business is being done,
process involved and opportunity that exist for improvement. General customers as well as the company's staff will be able to use the system effectively. Web-platform means that the system will be available for access 24/7 except when there is a temporary server issue which is expected to be minimal.

Limitation of Project.on Car Rental System
Although I have put my best efforts to make the software flexibie, easy to operate
but limitations cannot be nuled out even by me. Though the software presents a broad
range of options to its users some intricate options could not be covered into it: partly
because of logistic and partly due to lack of sophistication. Paucity of time was also
major constraint, thus it was not possible to make the software foolproof and dynamic.
Lack of time also compeled me to ignore some part such as storing old result of the
candidate etc



Working Methodology (the summary of the project must also be incorporated):

Details about the Hardware & Software used:In hardware part we will suggest to use Intel core i5 Processer(centre unit processor) to run severweb base .The amount of RAM (Random Access Memory) that is required depends on many factors such as requirement to other services, frequently accessed content files, operating system paging files and the web service application. It is recommended to have at least 1GB (Gigabyte) of RAM. Having more RAM (2GB or 4GB) in your server will be better as it will allow more files to be cached, reducing disk load.
In software Requirement will use MYSQL to save data .MySQL has built-in command prompt window to run the required commands. It is recommended to use SQL Wave 5 which makes it easier to create, edit, update and delete MySQL databases with its powerful GUI(Graphical User Interface).

Limitations of the system proposed: Car Rental System service will help users to book a car for some fee specified. Till now there was no clear web based UI to help the users to rent the vehicle. They had to manually rent the vehicle through their offices. It was a difficult task to manage rental vehicles. Keeping track of all the rental cars was a problem.

Conclusion 	
